{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11980\viewh13820\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ocean remote sensing\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Although described here as a research topic, this is really an area under development. So much of observational oceanography is "traditional". That is, one goes out on ships and measures temperature, salinity and pressure in the ocean. This is essential but a lot of information can be gleaned from remote sensing imagery. Given my engineering background, I am trying hard to supplement ship-based measurements of submesoscale phenomena with aerial measurements of the same. These phenomena have a tremendous impact on dispersion of surfactants and an aerial observing system (AOS) such as this would be useful for emergency response situations. This work stemmed from a research project in which {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file:///Users/ceb1c13/Dropbox/Websites/GitHub/cebuckingham.github.io/papers/Buckingham_etal_2017.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 infrared imagery was used in conjunction with 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
in situ
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 measurements}} to diagnose observations of a submesoscale frontal instability. Had a clear-sky image not been available from satellite, we would not have observed the front in this manner.\

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
\cf3 Geostrophic turbulence: eddies and jets in the oceans
\b0\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf3 My dissertation research centred around the use of satellite measurements to investigate whether or not jets exist in the oceans. Often referred to as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2012JC008231/full"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 striations}} or 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 bands
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 , these jet-like features are only observed in time averaged fields, such as sea surface height (SSH) and sea surface temperature (SST). They are ubiquitous in the global ocean, are associated with eastward- and westward-flowing currents, and have magnitudes comparable or smaller than the mesoscale eddy field. Our research has focused on the detection and discrimination of jets from the surrounding mesoscale eddies, where we find much of this energy is attributed to the mesoscale eddy field.\
It is possible that jets similar to those on Jupiter exist in the global oceans. Their existence is predicted from theory but they remain elusive in the oceans. One reason may be energy loss due to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2017JC012910/full"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 baroclinic instabilities}} that occurs on the periphery of mesoscale eddies. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wwwf.imperial.ac.uk/~pberloff/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Pavel Berloff}} has suggested that {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1017/jfm.2011.345"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 increased drag as a result of bottom topography}} might play a role. Finally,\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2010GL044680/abstract"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 winds blowing down ocean fronts}} appear to play a non-negligible role.\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Frontal instabilities and enhanced dissipation at ocean fronts\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Another research topic that collaborators and I have studied is submesoscale frontal instabilities. These include gravitational, symmetric, and centrifugal instabilities that occur when 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 fq
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  < 0, where 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 f
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  is the Coriolis parameter and 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 q
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  is the Ertel potential vorticity (PV). It can be thought as the continuum mechanics analogue of angular momentum, such that when a top ceases to spin (when 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 q
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  = 0), it is susceptible to slight perturbations in surface roughness or atmospheric disturbances. Eventually, these perturbations grow to an extent that they result in turbulence. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file:///Users/ceb1c13/Dropbox/Websites/GitHub/cebuckingham.github.io/papers/Buckingham_etal_2016a.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Observations of the first set of instabilities have been shown to be particularly pronounced during winter}}, though their exact contribution to the turbulence budget appears minimal compared with surface waves. A second type of instability occurs at ocean fronts but that is less dissipative in nature -- baroclinic instability. An example of such an instability has been documented in a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2017JC012910/abstract"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 study involving a cloud-free satellite image coincident with ship-based 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 in situ 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 measurements of an unstable front}}. Finally, X. Yu investigated vertical velocities for his thesis and is continuing additional work with this dataset.\
\
}